# FeelSafe-APP
An increasing concern regarding insecurity and criminality has propelled a growing interest in the investigation of technologies that can have an impact on the fight against crime. According to data from the Annual Internal Security Report, in Portugal, there was a 0.09% increase in crime, which corresponds to 825 reports per day and 34 reports of crime per hour. However, the most worrying fact is that rape crimes registered one of the biggest increases, by 26%, and it is not known if this increase is due to the fact that it was a pandemic, where could the existence of abnormal behavior within our society is being revealed. In view of these values, it is up to all of us to work so that the crime rate in Portugal goes down so that any citizen may feel safe in their daily lives. With the purpose of minimizing the value presented above, the Feel Safe application was developed, whose main objective is to alert family and friends of a specific user that is experiencing a situation of danger and in need of help, while providing a current address of the user in danger. In order to protect the user, a feature is also available that allows you to view the most dangerous areas according to the data collected by the application, preventing the user from entering potentially dangerous areas and, if entering those areas, an alert will go off.

Therefore, the first thing to do is to deifne the contacts that you want to tell that you are in danger. For that, go to Settings -> Change Contacts. After that, the user needs to specific a word/phrase that is go to trigger the process of sending the SMS (Settings -> Change word). After you do this, go to the main menu and chick on Help. Now, the program started a service that is listening what your saying through the microphone and when you speak the word/phrase that you defined, the program starts a process that is sending SMSs with your location in it. Every 1 minute, the program resends the SMS with the current position of the user. No matter if your on another application or even you have your phone turn off, the service is accessing to the microphone and it starts the process of sending the SMS. So, you dont need to be on the application to ask for help. To stop the process, just go to the application and chick on the button to Stop.

In order to protect the user from entering a danger area, the user can watch the zones that are the most dangerous zones, through a HeatMap ,according to the application data. Also, the application will send a alert notification when a user is close to a area of high risk. 
